1. what is java?
java is a high level language ,platform independent and object oriented programing language and it is used to create a applications.
we can run a java program in any os without modifing the code so it is called platform independent.
if we run the java program we need a jvm, without jvm we cant run the java programs.
java complier used to compile means convert source code into byte code.

2. explain how java will execute?
java program execute by JVM without jvm we cant run the java programs so jvm helps to write,read and develop java prrograms.
java compiler used to convert source code into byte code and jvm used to convert byte code to machine code.
JVM stands for java virtual machine.

3. what is data type?Explain types of data types?
data type used tells that what type of variable can hold.or that tells what type of data to be stored in variables.
thier are 2data types
1.primitive data types:primitive data type is a user defined data type and they are 7 data types like int,float,char,double,boolean,short,byte.
Default value of int is 0,for boolean :true/false,for double:0.0,for float:0.0,for char it should be in single quote like(' ').
2.non-primitive data types:non primitive data type is a pre defined data types and data types like array,classes,String .
default value of String is:null and the string is indicated by double quotes(" ").

4. what is variable ?Explain type of variable?
variable is used to store the information like what kind of data to be stored and it is a container for storing data .variable refers to the memory.
types of variables
1. local variables:local variables declare inside the method and it do not have any defaule value and it is in method scope.
2. static variable:static variable declare inside the class but outside method and it has a default values and this variable is used to store the coomon values and it shared to all objects.
3. instance variable: it declared inside the class but outside method and it refers to the class and object.
4. parameterized variable:the variable which is declared inside the method()paranthesis.

5. what is array?
array is a  collection of homogenious .

6. what is method?
method is a block of code used to perform some specific task .
types of methods:
userd defined method:it is developed or created by the user.
pre defined method: it is already developed or provided by java .

7. what is constructor?
constructor is used to initialize the object and it automatically call when the object is created and thier is no return type for constructor.










